Previously on "The 100"...
Where's Finn?
Looking for you.
Where is the girl
who was wearing this watch?
Their clothes are here.
They were here!
You slaughtered my people.
Elders. Children.
Innocents.
The massacre
must be answered.
Blood must have blood.
And as we speak,
they are marching on this camp.
They're not
attacking yet,
which means
we still have time.
Deliver me the one
you call Finn.
Our truce begins
with his death.
Hold your fire!
She's back!
Open the gate.
Power up the gates.
Roll-out positions.
Stay ready!
You OK?
Shut the gate.
You can't be
out here.
What did
she say?
Is there a chance
for a truce?
Yes.
What's wrong?
They want you.
If we want
a truce,
we have to give
them Finn.
What the hell
are you talking about?
That's their
offer.
That's not
an offer.
It's punishment.
For what happened
at the village.
Blood for blood.
That's insane.
If we refuse?
They attack.
Say we give him up!
Get rid of him.
Easy, people.
Give him to
the grounders.
Back off!
Hey, raven, raven.
Raven, listen to me.
Nothing is gonna
happen to him.
I promise, OK?
I'm not dying for him.
Spacewalker burned 3 months
of oxygen on the ark.
He should've floated
a long time ago.
Throw him out!
Back off!
Stop, raven!
Let me go.
It's not
the only option.
External airlock pressure tolerances
can be adjusted--
at the manual
feed stem.
Ask me a hard one.
You've answered
all of these, like, 10 times.
I have to go over
this stuff.
You're running
fluid dynamic specs
while we're
having sex.
I think you've
been over it.
Multitasking.
So, what do you
want to do for your birthday?
Honestly...
I just want
to pass.
That's it?
Move up to zero-g
so I don't have to spend
the rest of my life
trapped inside this
tin can?
That'd be enough.
Yeah.
Well, I got you something.
Made it, actually.
Mm.
It's a raven.
I thought it might
bring you luck.
For your test.
Do you like it?
Hey, man.
Byrne actually
gave me a gun.
I guess we really
are screwed, huh?
Look, we kicked
their asses last time.
We'll do it again.
A lot of people
died last time.
Hey. We're reinforcing
all defenses.
Doubles on
the perimeter.
No one's getting
past that wire.
I'll see where
they're thin.
No. You should
head inside.
B corridor
will be easier to defend
if it comes
to that.
I'm not gonna hide.
Right now, we have
to think about keeping you safe.
I'm gonna talk
to Lincoln.
Come on.
Finn.
Hey. Any orders
for me, princess?
Stay away from me.
Just trying
to be helpful.
You were with him
at the village.
I tried to stop him.
Not hard enough.
You know, you want
to start blaming people, Clarke?
He was out there
looking for you.
Hang on.
He's not a reaper
anymore.
He doesn't need
to be restrained.
Yes, I do.
Just tell us.
Is there a way to make peace?
Did she leave
riders behind?
Two just outside
the gate.
They're waiting
for Finn.
You don't have much
time to decide.
She can't expect us
to just
hand over one of
our own people.
- Would she do that?
- She wouldn't let
the rest of her people die
to protect a murderer.
If you don't do this,
she will kill
everyone in this camp.
There has to be something else
that we can offer.
Finn took 18 lives.
The commander's
offering to take
just one in return.
- Take the deal.
- How can you say that?
Finn was the first
person to come to you
to offer peace.
He's your friend.
He massacred
my village.
Some of the dead were
my friends, too.
But that
wasn't Finn.
You know that's
not who he is.
It is now.
We've all got a monster inside
of us, Clarke,
and we're all
responsible for what it does
when we let it out.
What will they do to him?
Fire.
Because he killed
the innocent,
it starts with fire.
Starts?
They'll take his hands.
His tongue, his eyes.
And anyone who grieves will
have a turn with the knife.
At sunrise, the commander
will end it with her sword.
But I've never known anyone
to survive until the sword.
He killed 18, he will suffer
the pain of 18 deaths.
Then we can have peace.
Abby. Let me out of
here, please.
It was stupid.
I'm sorry.
I don't want
to hear it.
He was ready to throw
Finn out the gate.
And you think I would
let that happen?
I don't know.
No.
The only way we're
gonna make it through this
is if we trust
each other.
I'm trying.
She's free to go.
If you do anything
like that again,
you will be back here
and you will stay here.
Do you understand me?
Don't be too hard on her.
She's a fighter.
We need fighters.
We need to find
a way out of this
without fighting.
There is a way,
and you know what it is.
No. It's not
an option.
We need
to consider it.
I said no.
I am not sending
a child
to his death.
We sent 100 of them
to the ground.
That was another time
and another chancellor.
Finn?
Bellamy told me
you were here.
What are
you doing?
I have to go.
Where? There's
nowhere to go.
I'm putting everyone
in this camp in danger.
There are grounders
everywhere, Finn.
They'll kill you.
Maybe that's
what I deserve.
For what I've done.
You were trying
to find our people.
Trying to save us.
I was trying
to save you.
Clarke...
- Finn--
- I'm in love with you.
Everything that's
happened,
everything I've done.
All that matters
is that you're OK.
That you forgive me.
Say something.
Don't leave.
Please.
What is that?
This is it.
We have to
get you inside.
They're trying
to scare us.
I think we
should pull back
and go inside
the station.
No. We need to prove
we're not afraid.
What if I am?
Fake it.
Open the gate.
Where's the boy?
We're not
giving him up.
We're ready
to fight,
if that's what
it comes to.
Huh, hyah, hyah!
Watch the woods!
Watch for movement!
Bellamy.
Movement on the tree line!
Don't shoot!
Marcus.
Chancellor.
I was afraid that I wouldn't
see you again.
I had those
fears myself.
It's good to see
this place again.
Can't be out
in the open.
We need to get
somewhere safe.
It's safe
for the moment.
Come on.
We need to talk.
I managed to buy us
a bit of time.
All right, close it up!
Let's go!
Where did they
keep you?
Uh, the commander's
stronghold, I think.
I wasn't
a prisoner, but
I wasn't allowed
outside, either.
Until they brought me
up here last night
with a bag
over my head.
What is this?
What's going on?
Apparently,
the chancellor thinks
I'm a very
dangerous man.
Wait outside.
Yes, ma'am.
The former
chancellor
is being detained
for treason.
No offense, Marcus,
but I'm keeping the job
until this is over.
I would advise you
not to fight her on this.
You bought us
time how?
I've gotten to know
the commander
and I believe...
She'd be open to
the right proposal.
What kind
of proposal?
We offer to put
the boy on trial ourselves.
Here. For war crimes.
War crimes?
Abby, if we put him
on trial,
at least we will have
control over the process
and his treatment.
So, instead of
letting the grounders kill Finn,
we would execute
him ourselves?
That's a strong
possibility.
Abby, I know
this is hard.
But given
what we know,
given the ferocity
of grounder justice,
this could be
the most merciful
outcome for the boy.
You still want the job?
What's happening?
You were in there
a long time.
There was a lot
to talk about.
Well, what's
going on?
There was a lot
to talk about.
Hey. We are not turning him
over to the grounders.
Step aside now.
We're all trying
to find a way out of this.
They're gonna
give him up.
All fighters being
deployed, move to section 5.
All fighters being deployed,
move to section 5.
Hey. What's up?
Happy Birthday.
Yeah. Sorry
about that.
I know we had
a plan.
The team got
jammed up.
Maybe I'll
see you later?
Did they post
the scores?
Aced it.
The first
perfect score
since they've
been giving the test.
So, when's your
first spacewalk?
That'd be never.
What?
I failed the physical.
Some kind of
heart murmur.
It's like a trillion to
one I'd ever feel it,
but they don't want to
waste the training on me
in case I might
kick it, so...
I'm out.
Happy Birthday.
Finn.
You need to get
out of here.
Where would
he go?
The dropship.
No! You know that this is the
safest place for him right now.
It isn't if they're
turning on him.
We can protect him
at the dropship
until we figure
this thing out.
Grab your gear and meet at
raven's gate in 5.
She's already
working on cutting
the power
to the fence.
OK, but nobody's
coming with me.
That isn't up
for discussion.
We are surrounded
by grounders.
If we split up,
we take the low ground,
we'll make it
through.
We'll meet at
the dropship.
There he is.
You are gonna
get us killed.
Anyone else?
Bellamy's right.
We have to go.
I thought we were
meeting in the mess.
I thought this
would be better
on an empty stomach.
Happy Birthday.
Uh, you're a week
and a half late,
and you've already
given me something.
Open it.
Do you like it?
It's a piece of
tape with my name on it.
It goes with this.
I borrowed it from
the maintenance bay.
There's external repairs scheduled
all month.
The crew
knocked off at 6
and no one in
monitoring will be
paying attention
to an open airlock
in that section.
No one will
ever know.
So, you want to go
for a walk?
Decom sequence complete.
Is that everything?
Purge recycle tanks.
Uh, open
the refresh valve.
OK. Done.
Here we go.
Have fun.
The commander
accepted this agreement?
We haven't made
the proposal yet.
But I think she'll be willing
to consider it.
I need to know.
If we put Finn on trial ourselves,
is your commander
going to accept the outcome,
even if we decide
he belongs in jail?
Even if she wanted
to accept this deal,
she'd be dead
by morning.
She'd know that.
Your people would
kill their own leader
for being merciful?
For being weak.
Finn killed
innocent people.
If death has no cost,
life has no worth.
That's how we live.
I spent time
with your commander.
She's a visionary.
And that's why you're
all still alive.
If it were up to some at her table,
you wouldn't be.
- Indra?
- She leads those voices, yes.
She's dangerous, Abby.
If she's the one
that's standing
in the way of
an agreement,
I need to speak to her
face to face.
There's nothing
you can say.
Maybe not.
But I can show her
we understand
her pain.
Maybe that
will be enough.
Hey. You see
anything?
I thought we were
splitting up.
Not a chance.
What do we do
after the dropship?
Where do we go?
You think the grounders
will just leave
when they find out
I'm gone?
Is this the
best way to help
our friends inside
Mount Weather?
We will figure
this out.
Rawr!
Look out!
I don't want
to shoot you.
Go!
Get out of here!
I checked again.
Still no sign
of them.
Where are they?
We shouldn't have
split up.
Someone's coming.
Ooh, hey, hey, hey.
Murphy.
What are you
doing here?
I believe
I was invited.
I thought we could
use an extra gun.
Might be
a good idea.
Finn should've
been right behind you.
Don't worry.
The Spacewalker's gonna be fine.
This is ark station
calling birthday girl.
You're hitting Eva Max.
Time to come back inside.
Are you reading, birthday girl?
Received, ark station.
On my way.
Closing the outer doors.
Ahh.
How was that?
Free.
Warning.
Outer door breached.
Airlock pressure failing.
Initiate emergency protocol.
What happened?
Finn?
I don't know!
What happened?
A grounder hit her
on the head.
Put her here.
I need a bandage.
A rag. Anything.
Got it.
Here.
Hold her head.
Clarke,
can you hear me?
Clarke.
You're gonna be fine.
You just need to rest.
Hey. It's just
a bump on the head.
Clarke's gonna be OK.
Are you?
We'll figure this out.
That's what she said.
Right before I almost
got her killed.
Why have you come,
leader of the sky people?
To talk.
Leader to leader.
We've both seen
too many of our people die.
No. You came to lie.
We have seen your
killer in the forest.
You ordered him to run,
and then you came here
to distract us.
I'm just trying to keep
my people alive.
Same as you.
You told our riders
you were ready to fight.
If we don't find
the boy soon,
you'll get to prove that.
You kill one of ours,
we kill two of yours.
That only helps
the Mountain men.
There has to be a way
to end this without bloodshed.
You have courage...
But courage
isn't justice.
Only the boy can die
for what the boy has done.
Still nothing?
Just give her
a little time.
I never meant
to hurt you.
I know.
Truth is,
things change.
Maybe that's
for the best.
Don't let me off
the hook so easy.
We'll always
be family.
Always.
Hey.
Told you
she'd be OK.
Ahh.
How's your head?
Awesome.
When you went down...
I thought you were dead.
Because of me.
I'm right here.
I've killed
so many people.
Finn, the things that
we've done to survive...
They don't define us.
What if
you're wrong?
What if this is
who we are now?
We got company!
Get out here.
Get down.
Grounders.
We're surrounded.
Airlock pressure.
Approaching red zone.
I can't open
the inner door!
We must've
blown a seal.
The doors won't open
until we're equalized!
Airlock pressure
now critical.
- The door!
- Raven!
Manual
override.
Emergency
override authorized.
Unh. Shut the door.
Are you OK?
Emergency support teams
to airlock b-17 immediately.
We gotta get
out of here.
It was a breach.
The section doors
are sealed.
Take off the suit.
Take it off
and give it to me.
Finn, Finn, that breach
lost a lot of oxygen.
That plus
an unauthorized spacewalk,
it's a capital crime.
I'm still 17.
I'll go to the Skybox
for a couple months,
then I'll get a review.
- Review?
- I'll have a chance.
A good one.
Raven, you're 18.
You'll get floated.
Take off the suit.
Now!
There he is.
Am I gonna get
in trouble for this?
They're not moving
any closer.
Staying out of range.
Probably waiting
until it's dark.
If we hit them now, at least
we'd take them by surprise.
We don't even know
how many of them are out there.
I'm not hearing any
better ideas, Clarke.
We'll give them something.
All they want
is Finn.
Finn wasn't the only
one at the village.
What are you
talking about?
Raven, hold on.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Raven, I came here
to protect him.
You were the one who
wanted me to come. You--
that's why you asked me
to come along.
Enough grounders
saw him at the village.
They'd believe
he was the shooter.
Sick bitch.
Raven, you don't
mean this.
You know what they
do to people.
They want a murderer,
we'll give them one.
Drop your gun.
Go to hell, raven.
Put it down, raven.
Like it or not,
he's one of us.
I said drop it.
Stop! Stop!
We're not
doing this.
They've got us
surrounded.
The only thing we
can do is stay.
And defend
this place.
I'm with you.
- Murphy...
- Yeah.
Go upstairs.
Watch the rear.
I'll take
the lower level.
You three,
take the front gate.
That's the plan.
All right?
Hey.
We got this.
May we meet again.
We will.
Yeah.
Be careful.
You, too.
See anything?
No.
Someone's coming.
There.
Finn?
No.
Finn!
Reyes!
Yes, sir.
How's that
supply line coming?
It's a piece of crap.
Sir. But I'll
get it working.
No, you won't.
I'm pulling you off duty.
You got your zero-g certification.
Congratulations.
But I failed
the physical.
Yeah, I saw
your test scores.
I overruled the rejection.
You're in.
Now, get moving.
What is that?
It's for Finn.
They want us to watch.
We're gonna get him.
We'll get in close
and we'll hit them hard.
Son... There's
thousands of them.
Even if we could
kill hundreds,
they'd still
wipe out this camp
and your friend
would still die.
We have to try.
Abby.
Abby, we have
to do something.
No, raven.
Take this.
What are
you doing?
I'm gonna talk
to the commander.
What else do you
have to say?
I don't know.
- Clarke.
- Give me your hand.
If she won't
let him go, kill her.
Things'll go crazy,
and we'll grab you and Finn.
Clarke.
You have to help him.
I owe him my life.
Clarke. What is
she doing?
Wait.
Abby. Gotta
let her try.
What is she doing?
I'm here to talk
to your commander.
Let me through.
Let her pass.
You bleed
for nothing.
You cannot stop this.
No. Only you can.
Show my people how
powerful you are.
Show them you
can be merciful.
Show them you're
not a savage.
We are what we are.
Then I'm a killer.
I burned
300 of your people.
I slit a man's throat
and watched him die.
I'm soaked
in grounder blood.
Take me.
But Finn is guilty.
No. He did it
for me.
He did it for me.
Then he dies
for you.
Come on, Clarke.
Do it.
Can I say good-bye?
What is
she doing?
I love you, too.
I'm scared.
You're gonna be OK.
You're OK.
Thanks, princess.
It is done.
No!
No! No!